# Associate Cloud Engineer: Learning Phase 1 Main Track Channel (2020)

## Course: Google Cloud Platform Fundamentals - Core Infrastructure
## Module: Getting Started with Google Cloud Platform
## Google Cloud Fundamentals: Getting Started with Compute Engine


## Objectives
In this lab, you will learn how to perform the following tasks:

- Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Console.

- Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the gcloud command-line interface.

- Connect between the two instances.


### Task 1: Sign in to the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Console


1. Make sure you signed into Qwiklabs using an incognito window.
2. Note the lab's access time (for example 2:00:00 and make sure you can finish in that time block.
3. When ready, click 
4. Note your lab credentials. You will use them to sign in to Cloud Platform Console.
5. Click Open Google Console.
6. Click Use another account and copy/paste credentials for this lab into the prompts.
7. Accept the terms and skip the recovery resource page.

### Task 2: Create a virtual machine using the GCP Console
1. In GCP console, on the top right toolbar, click the Open Cloud Shell button.
2. Click Continue.
3. To display a list of all the zones in the region to which Qwiklabs assigned you,
enter this partial command `gcloud compute zones list | grep` followed by the region that Qwiklabs or your instructor assigned you to.

```
gcloud compute zones list | grep us-central1

```
4.  Choose the region:
```
gcloud config set compute/zone us-central1-a
```

5.To create a VM instance called my-vm-1 in that zone, execute this command:
```
gcloud compute instances create "my-vm-2" \
--machine-type "n1-standard-1" \
--image-project "debian-cloud" \
--image "debian-9-stretch-v20190213" \
--subnet "default"
--tags http

```

### Task 3: Create a virtual machine using the gcloud command line

1. create another vm with same configration but  in different zone "us-central1-b" 
2. To close the Cloud Shell, execute the following command:

```
exit

```


Task 4: Connect between VM instances
1. In the Navigation menu (Navigation menu), click Compute Engine > VM instances.
2. To open a command prompt on the my-vm-2 instance, click SSH in its row in the VM instances list.
3. Use the ping command to confirm that my-vm-2 can reach my-vm-1 over the network:
```
ping my-vm-1

```
4. Press Ctrl+C to abort the ping command.

5. Use the ssh command to open a command prompt on my-vm-1:
```
ssh my-vm-1

```

6.At the command prompt on my-vm-1, install the Nginx web server:

```
sudo apt-get install nginx-light -y
```



7. sudo nano /var/www/html/index.nginx-debian.html

```sudo nano /var/www/html/index.nginx-debian.html```

8.Use the arrow keys to move the cursor to the line just below the h1 header. Add text like this, and replace YOUR_NAME with your name:

```
Hi from YOUR_NAME


```
9. Press Ctrl+O and then press Enter to save your edited file, and then press Ctrl+X to exit the nano text editor.

10. Confirm that the web server is serving your new page. At the command prompt on my-vm-1, execute this command:

```
curl http://localhost/

```
11. To exit the command prompt on my-vm-1, execute this command:

```
exit
```

12.To confirm that my-vm-2 can reach the web server on my-vm-1, at the command prompt on my-vm-2, execute this command:

```
curl http://my-vm-1/

```
13.In the Navigation menu (Navigation menu), click Compute Engine > VM instances.

14. Copy the External IP address for my-vm-1 and paste it into the address bar of a new browser tab. You will see your web server's home page, including your custom text.






